# Screen Layout and Default Window Layout

## On Screen Items 

The bottom bar, which I prefer to having a top bar (and recently moved away from using a top and bottom bar) functions as the hub of the window manager, displaying which workspace the user is on, what windows are on the screen in, various system applets and icons to bring up the left and right panels. By default, the bottom bar is hidden until the user navigates the mouse to the bottom of the screen (its set to appear when the mouse enters the last row of pixels) as this maximizes the viewing screen without the need for a microscopic bottom bar as would otherwise be necessary and prevent the user from appreciating the design elements at play such as the use of the letters of "awesomewm" as the names of the various tags in the font that the window manager uses on its official site (thanks to the otherwise useless documentation for that much).

Pressing the gear icon to the far left of the bottom bar reveals the left bar, which provides system information and a means of accessing a settings widget which can further configure the window manager within a deliberately constrained set of options. More options, while possible and relatively easily ported into the configuration, exceed the scope of the configuration's intention as my default environment where I find having such a swath of options unnecessary as I have a general approach to many of these options I always take and thus configurable options I don't need only add to the debugging nightmare. 

Pressing the menu icon on the far right of the panel reveals the right panel, which shows notifications on one tab and a set of useful widgets on the other such as a calculator, a COVID-19 tracker and links to various sites I find helpful to have available at a few keypresses (<kbd>mod4</kbd> + <kbd>h</kbd> brings up the right panel for instance)


## The Wibar 

The 'wibar' is awesome's name for the variously named (startbar in windows) bar at the bottom of the screen. I know the names associated with this window manager are something fiercely terrible. Nonetheless, I really appreicate Awesome's default bar, it works well enough and integrates easily into the overall system without need to contend with an additional program. Since it is in lua, there is no need to whip out the Python to write plugins (unless you want that) or anything awful like Vala. It is also about as fully featured as the same component within DWM, which Awesome started as a fork of, which means no need to get bar envy looking at random set ups on `r/unixporn` just need to code the sucker out. 

I used to prefer using two wibars, one on top and one on bottom (having them on the left and right is beyond weird in multi-monitor set ups, which I need for web development purposes) yet that was a lot of screen real estate wasted on the bars and makes for a nightmare determining where various applets should be placed, as well as trying to maximize usage of these bars that I have moved away from as I now prefer to keep most of the functionality once on screen at all times instead in one of the hidden bars (which I can get away with having on the left and right). So I opted to return to the default of one on screen bar, which I moved to the bottom as I prefer that personally. I also opted to hide it, to truly maximize the workspace available on screen, which is shown when the mouse reaches the bottom most row of pixels on the screen, which I think is a far smarter approach than any 'intelligent hiding' feature I have ever used in other DEs/WMs/OSes. 