## Window Manager Concepts

Your window manager in the Linux context, is the program that draws the box of the window of an application on screen. Anyone with experience with Linux much beyond the subsystem Windows knows that there are different desktop managers, which are packages of (hopefully) tightly integrated programs, of which the window manager is a major one responsible for things like having multiple program interfaces up at the same time and making pretty configurations we can show off screenshots of on Reddit. Its an important piece of software and its important to take time first learning the various work flows of the distros currently popular, developing a preference, exploring the various desktop environments and eventually coming to dissatisfaction with them all thus have proceeded down the path of deducing how to make your own that suits your needs better. Let yourself go through each stage organically as the groundwork for the journey forward. 

### Arrangement of Windows On Screen
In deciding upon an alternative window manager, a critical detail to consider from the onset of your hostilities with the ease and luxury your spartan experiences with a modern Linux DE, is exactly how do you want the window manager to arrange new windows on the screen if other windows are or are not present. The difference to attend to is this, which is deduced by which of the following the window manager is described by its development team as:
- **Floating** - the type you are used to from propriety OSes where the new window floats, as the old, these can be just as customizable as any other system, see Openbox configurations for examples of what can be done with floating window managers that rival any highly refined alternative in another category. 
- **Tiling** - the screen is split into sections which are assigned to new clients. According to several patterns of bisecting the screen is, with some window managers enabling any and all options in this regard and others limiting in what patterns are available for it.
- **Hybrid** - as you may have guessed, this option has the ability to do either as an out of the box feature. 

### Means of Configuration
 Each window manager comes with its own method of configuration that if you have tastes not stuck 15 years behind the present, you will want to know how to do as so often the window managers available are by default very much stuck about that far behind. Assuming you share in my lack of enthusiasm for a flash back of that sort, you should pay careful attention to the choice you make in this regard or you'll pay in blood. Some languages offer a plain text configuration file and enable you to basically add in all the external programs you want to accomplish various basic tasks while providing a minimal set of options for the purposes of tweaking the interface along specific paths, while others will enable you to use all the power of a programming language constraining you only so much as you want for imagination or source code to browse of other configurations. 

 Another critical point to consider is when writing a complex configuration, exactly how well can one split up the configuration into separate and smaller chunks more easily digested when working with the code itself. Writing the configuration with this in mind, it is wise to attempt to make it modular in its nature, such that each piece if removed from the whole could be bolted meaningfully onto someone else's configuration and serve the same purpose you intend for it locally. This will make integrating new functionality smoother as time goes on among other useful perks, so its worth giving a college try but don't worry I ignored this at first too, Linux is about learning the hard way. 
 